# Installation

This document serves as a guide on installing Foodel on a computer. The current
operating systems supported are Windows 10 and Mac OS. It is possible that
Foodel will work on other operating systems but this has not been tested. 

## Requirements

### Windows 
- N/A*

### Mac OS
- Java Runtime Environment

\* Java is optional for Windows users. Windows users are provided an `exe` file
that points to a bundled Java Runtime Environment. Foodel will attempt to use
its own, Java Runtime Environment first. Mac OS users are provided the JAR file
which they will need a local Java Runtime Environment to use.

## Install Instructions

The default method of installing Foodel is via the [installer](#) on the Foodel
website. The installer will ask you a series of questions relating to your
install / desired usage. It will ask questions such as: what operating system
you are using, if foodel will be a shared or local install, etc.

*What is the difference between a local and shared install?* A local install is
one that is designed to be on a personal machine. When a job is submitted to
Foodel, it won't restrict who can access the results. On shared installations,
possibly in use by multiple people or over the internet, it will restrict who
can view this. This is done by a key system. Foodel will show you the key to
access the results once and you will need to keep note of this to access the
results.


### Windows
If you choose *Windows* as your operating system, you will be provided an `exe`
file. These are native to Windows and you can double-click them to launch
programs / applications. When you choose Windows, a Java Runtime is also
packaged as well. This means you don't need to have Java installed on your
system. Foodel will use this instead of you having to install your own version
of Java. 

### Mac OS
If you choose *Mac OS*, you will be given a JAR. JARs, meaning *Java ARchive*,
is an zipped version of the files needed to run Foodel. You need a Java Runtime
Environment installed on your system to use Foodel. If you do not have one
already installed, it can be downloaded and installed from
[here](https://www.java.com/en/download/).



## Starting Foodel

### Windows

### Mac OS